So with the basics of routing covered, let's now make sure that we continue working on the app before
we then dive into other navigation and routing features like tabs and working on the app of course means
that when we for example select Italian as a category, it would be nice if we could display some
recipes here.
So that's the next thing I want to work on. In the CategoryMealsScreen here, instead of showing that
center text,
the goal of course has to be to show something else, to show a list of recipes. So for that, instead of
having this centered widget here, we can add a ListView which we use to output the recipes.
Now just as you learned it before in the course, you can build that ListView in two ways - you can
either use the constructor here and add children or use the special builder constructor to have a list
view where items are managed, such that items that are not on the screen are actually removed and only
items that are on the screen are rendered which provides a better performance for very long lists.
Now since we potentially have a lot of recipes, a lot of meals which we want to show in that category
and we don't know in advance how many it will be, I will go for the builder approach here.
Now when using the builder, you need your item builder argument where you provide a builder method,
so the method this ListView builder will call for every item, for every list item it tries to add to
the screen
and there, you get a context and you get the index of the element which is getting rendered and then
here in the body of that item builder function,
you have to return a widget which is built as a single row here or as a single list item.
Now besides that, you also need to tell the ListView.builder how many items you will have and that can
be done with item count here.
Now what's definitely missing here is of course a list of recipes. In the dummy_data.dart file which
I simply use as a dummy data source here,
thus far I only have categories,
now it's time to also add recipes. For that,
let's first of all define how a recipe or a meal should look like.
So I'll add a meal.dart file which describes the model for a meal.
So in there, I'll add a class, meal
and now of course there are thousands of different ways of defining how a meal should look like.
Here's my definition of it for this application -
every meal should have a unique ID by which we can identify it,
in addition, every meal should have a list of categories ID to which it belongs
because every category here in the dummy data has an ID to identify it
and of course every meal should be part of one or more categories.
So here, I want to have a list of strings which are my category IDs
or categories simply.
So that's another thing which we need in a meal so that we can map meals to categories. Besides that
of course, every meal should have a title or a name, whatever you want to name it
and it should also have an image and here,
I'll use an imageUrl
so that we use a network image. So we'll not store the image locally as part of our app bundle
because in a real app, these meals would probably be created on some server and fetched dynamically by
your app,
you don't want to hardcode all the data into your app bundle and therefore, we will use a network image
here so that the image doesn't have to be shipped with our app, hence we could also, if we would be fetching
our recipes from a server which we are not here
but if we would, then we could also of course fetch new recipes with new images which didn't exist when
we created the app,
hence this external image with the imageUrl. Now obviously, every meal also needs a list of strings
that describe the ingredients
and of course you could also have a more complex data model here,
you could say every ingredient is not just a string, not just the name of the ingredient but it could
also be a mixture of name and quantity
but I don't want to make this too complicated here since the main focus of this app of course is navigation
and therefore we'll just go with a list of strings,
so just a list of ingredient names or names where the quantity is already involved, like three tablespoons
of sugar, something like this.
Then we also need steps and that's another list of strings, simply text steps that describe what you have to
do to create that meal. We also might want a duration that gives viewers of our app an indication of
how long this meal will take to create or to prepare and maybe we also want to say something about the
complexity of that meal and maybe also about the affordability, just some extra information we have as
part of this application. For this, we could add a complexity variable and now the question is, which
type of data would that be?
It could be a string so that we have for example a value like simple but then we have to remember these
exact names when we work with them in our app, when we compare them or anything like that.
Instead, we could use numbers which makes this a bit simpler and avoids typos when we use that name
in the app.
So we could say 0 is simple, 1 is medium and 2 is difficult.
The problem with that is that we have to remember this mapping of numbers to meaning, so that zero means
simple is something we as a developer have to remember and therefore, an int is a good but not the perfect
type here.
A better type is an enum and we used enums before, we just haven't created one ourselves.
You do create a new enum by simply typing enum, which is a keyword in Dart and then curly braces and
now between the curly braces, you add your different values or options this should provide because an enum
is essentially a type that helps you create a choice amongst a couple of alternatives.
So here, if we have an enum which we give a name of complexity and that's also important, you need to
give your enum a name, then you add the values here, for example simple, challenging, hard.
Now behind the scenes, what Dart does is it simply uses 0, 1 and 2 here, it maps these values here to normal
integers but you as a developer can work with the labels which is of course simpler for us humans and
for the computer again, numbers are used and then we can use our complexity enum as a type here because
an enum, just like a class, also creates a type which you can use
and now we can use this enum type here to describe the complexity of our meal and we always have a choice
amongst these three options,
we have to pick one of these three options otherwise Dart will give us an error and we can't miss type
because the way we use an enum is like this. If we assign a value here, we do it by accessing our enum
and then with a dot notation, we get autocompletion here and we use one of these available values
and if we would add some other value like difficult, well then we would get an error here in Dart.
So that's the amazing thing about enums
and that's also why of course Flutter uses enums heavily and we used enums implicitly thus far already
for some configuration values like alignment and so on which sometimes provided us enums.
So here we have the complexity enum,
I will create another enum here and that will be the affordability, to describe how affordable that meal
is. The affordability could have values of affordable, pricey and luxurious
and of course it's up to you how you build this and which values you want to use and that with that affordability
enum added, we can of course add another variable or another property here to our meal class,
we can use affordability as a type here for an affordability variable or property on the meal class.
Now we're almost done but there are four more properties which I want to have here
and these are properties which we'll later use for filtering.
These will be boolean values
and I want to use isGlutenFree here, another bool for isLactoseFree,
another bool
property, isVegan and another bool property, isVegetarian
and again this is something we'll use later once we added this settings or this filterings screen
where we can make sure that certain recipes, certain meals are not included in our app and for that and
to exclude meals,
we of course need to describe on every meal if it matches one of our filters. So that could be a dummy
data model,
now as always, I want to provide a constructor here so that we can create meal objects and populate all
these properties
and for that in the constructor, we essentially set all these properties. Since we have a lot of
properties,
I'm not the biggest fan of using positional arguments here because you then have to remember that the
first argument is ID.
the second argument is title and so on,
so instead I'll use named arguments here and then assign values to this ID, these categories and so
on.
Now before I continue, it's important that I want to make sure that all these arguments are actually
required,
so that means that you must not leave an argument out here and therefore, we should import a package out
there and that's the Flutter package and there, the foundation.dart file because this foundation.dart
file unlocks one special decorator which we can use here in front of our arguments,
the @required decorator which ensures that we get an error if we try to create a meal without one
of the required arguments
and now we can simply require all these properties we have here as arguments.
So the title, the imageUrl, the ingredients of course, also the steps,
also of course the duration, then of course also the complexity,
then the affordability and so on.
So I'm going through all my properties, isGlutenFree,
then also isLactoseFree, then of course also required isVegan and required isVegetarian.
and
with that,
let's see, which error am I getting here? isGlutenFree,
yes I missed the
this keyword here so let's add that here and with that, this is looking good.
This is the finished meal class here which indeed now allows us to add meals.
Now with that, we can add some dummy data to the dummy_data.dart file and you'll find an updated version
of that file attached to this video which now does not only include the categories which we already
had in there but which also contains a list of meals. So you can simply copy and paste that into your
dummy_data.dart file,
here it is and there we then have a long list of meals which you can add now. Now for meal to be available,
you need to make sure that you also add an import to this file, if it's not there already, to the
meal.dart file in the models folder
and one thing I forgot is in the meal.dart file, of course our constructor here should be a const constructor
so that we can create immutable values here and also add const in front of this list here,
the dummy meals list.